>> Brian Holt: Now we have here this
button click and what I want to do,
like I had this thought process that I
want to have a separate function for
handling numbers, right?
Because the way you handle numbers is
the same, right, whether it's five or
seven, the code looks the same for
that, so
I want to separate that
into its own function.
And then each one of these multiplied,
divide, clear, equals,
they're gonna be treated differently
depending on which one we click, right?
Because if I click add I
wanna use the add operator.
So I need to kind of
separate that logic out.
So I wanna have some sort of function
handleSymbol and
then I wanna have a function handleNumber,
right?
That's the way I'm kind of choosing to
break this down into a smaller problem
that's easier to solve.
So here, from button click, I either
want to go to the handleSymbol if it's
a symbol, or I can go, want to go to the
handleNumber, if value is a number, right?
Feeling good?
Do you feel okay about that?
So let me show you an easy way to do that.
There’s a couple ways.
One of them that I’ve already shown
you is you could say if parseInt,
actually this is probably
the easiest way to do it.
So if I try and parseInt a value,
>> Brian Holt: And
then I ask typeof,
>> Brian Holt: So
parseInt is gonna try its hardest to turn
whatever you gave it into a number, right?
So if I give this 5,
it's gonna say cool, this is 5.
And then you're gonna ask
what type of thing is 5?
Well, 5 is a number if you
parse the Int out of it.
So this is going to,
this is a number, right?
If I say, in fact, let's just take
a look at what that looks like.
>> Brian Holt: Trash, and
I say, parseInt of green.
So, something that's
obviously not a number,
it's gonna say, that's not a number.
So that's what this NaN is.
That means, not a number.
But if I say parseInt of 5 like that,
it's gonna come back a 5, right?
If I say type of parseInt,
a 5, I get number.
And if I say type of parseInt of green,
I get, well, that's a number.
That's not what I wanted.
What does that give you back,
parseInt green
>> Brian Holt: That's right.
Okay, new thought is NAN.
>> Brian Holt: Is 5 NAN,
no, is green, NAN, true.
>> Brian Holt: So, is NaN, it's just
a function that's built in the JavaScript
that can tell you if
something is a number or not.
So not this, this is not actually we want.
>> Brian Holt: isNAN.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then this is a number.
So now I can separate these things,
as this is definitely a number.
This is definitely not a number.
So now I can say here,
this is not a number, so I can just say
handleSymbol with value
like that, this is gonna be a symbol and
then here,
I can say handleNumber and
I wanna pass it as a number, right?
Because I wanna operate
on it like it's a number.
Yeah, we'll just handle
the number like that.
So, value.
Okay?
And this is going to be a numberString, so
I'm going to call that a numberString,
just to remind myself in the future like
this is a number but
I still have it as a string.
>> Brian Holt: If the buffer is === 0.
>> Brian Holt: String 0, make sure.
>> Brian Holt: So let's actually
just go take a look what happens.
Refresh here.
If I press 5, what would you expect the
number to become right now, on the screen?
>> Brian Holt: It should become 5, right?
That would make sense,
right, as a calculator.
So if it's === 0,
then we're just going to replace 0 with 5.
Right?
Good.
Does that make sense to you?
If the numbers is, let's just go back
to the one that actually works here.
So if I click 5,
you expect that to become 5.
If I click 5 again,
what do you expect to go there?
55, right?
So I'm not doing real math here,
I'm doing string math, right?
I'm concatenating strings together.
If I click 7,
I expect 7 to go on there, right?
So this is,
we're mushing strings together,
despite the fact that they're numbers.
>> Brian Holt: So here,
I'm gonna say buffer = numberString.
>> Brian Holt: Else buffer = buffer +
numberString, right?
Or you can do the plus equals
like I showed you before.
So buffer = buffer + numberString or
you can say buffer += numberString.
>> Speaker 2: That wouldn't work if I
wanted to write 032 on my calculator,
it would just give me 32.
>> Brian Holt: Correct, that's it for
numbers, that's all you have to do to get
numbers working correctly
which is pretty cool, right?